# BarCamp - Saturday 11th June 2016
 
Free-of-charge to attend - full day - 10:00 - 17:30
 
Registration now open!
 
What is a bar camp? A bar camp is a conference where what happens is organised by 
the delegates on the day. The event organisers have to arrange something, the main 
one being the venue, but the rest is down to the delegates. So all the hassle of talk 
submissions, review and scheduling is taken away.
 
Typically at the start of the day everyone gets up in turn and says who they are, what 
their interests are and what they’d like to do. Based on this people write proposals on 
PostIt notes and stick these on a board.
 
A moderator may read out the proposals in turn to gauge interest, and if sufficient the 
proposal will be put on a scheduling board. Delegates may adjust this to avoid clashes 
etc.
 
Experience shows that this format results in high quality sessions focussed on what 
delegates want.
 
There is no charge to attend. Everyone should be able to afford to attend and as it is a 
one-day event you will not need to incur accommodation costs, though there are 
several hotels nearby for anyone who wishes to stay over.
 
Refreshments, tea, coffee & biscuits will be provided morning and afternoon, and 
Lunch will also be provided.
 
## Why attend?
 
There are lots of reasons to attend the FLOSS UK Bar Camp 2016 including:
 
 * Keep abreast with new/emerging technologies
 * Network with some of the people who are responsible for developing critical 
applications
 * Become part of the UK Open Source community – build up informal relationships that 
can be invaluable in problem solving
 * Benefit from the experience of delegates with similar interests

See:  http://www.flossuk.org/events/barcamp-birmingham/


