# Learning Unix for OS X

## Chris Stoddart

The unix command line is where I spend my working day; my desk is dominated by two large linux monitors with a MacBook alongside for watching email and keeping me awake when I take it to meetings. However, in common with many other Mac users, I only occasionally venture into the Mac’s terminal and even more rarely into its command line. I was therefore looking forward to reading this book as a spur towards using my MacBook in a more creative way.

Dave Taylor’s book is quite slim for an O’Reilly publication at just over 200 pages. This latest version also covers the changes introduced with El Capitan (OS X 10.11). It is written in an accessible, readable style that begs to be picked up and dipped into at random. I kept it beside my bed and read a few more pages and learned a couple of new things, or more accurately, a couple of Mac ways of doing previously familiar things almost every night. The book largely covers commands that most of us will have been using for a long time. I personally do not mind having my memory jogged about commands I have not really thought about for a while, plus every so often there would be a particularly Apple quirk that made me go ‘aha’. For example there are a few references to Applescript commands that I was not previously aware of at all.

It has to be said that this book is not aimed at the seasoned unix user and I would be happy giving it to someone who had never been exposed to the unix command line interface before. It starts off from very simple beginnings - what a command line is, where the terminal program can be found and so on. However, even for an experienced user it can become useful quite quickly. Early on there is a section on customising the terminal, which for those of us who don’t particularly enjoy experimenting with click boxes and radio buttons, is a handy guide to making our terminals behave in a more personal way. From there onwards we progress through a couple of large sections on dealing with the filesystem and files, some basic i/o redirects, some simple online commands, a chapter on X11, and finally a frustratingly short teaser on further learning.

Ultimately I would have liked to have seen more advanced commands and options discussed later in the book - surely some scope there for a larger edition? To that end, I suggest that the ‘Going Deep’ part of the book’s subtitle is something of a misnomer. Despite that, I still enjoyed reading it and found the book useful. On many occasions I caught myself wondering why I had not bothered to fire up the Macs terminal and type a few commands before instead of, for example, battling on with the dumbness of the Finder. As a result of this book, I shall certainly be using my MacBook a little differently from now on. 
